ethical teaching. To rely for this reason on a certain feeling
dictated by reason, but only adopted instinctively and therefore
reasoning faculty; as the teacher will easily find who tries to
principles of duty, so far as it is derived from pure reason, it was
But in this reasoning there is also a contradiction. For, on the one
reason, which feels its power so strongly in the fields, just as if
theoretical reason and roused by a general call to arms to resist that
practical reason, (i.e., according to humanity in his own person).
conquer them by means of reason, not in the future, but in the
reason which is at the same time conceived as an objectively necessary
may contradict duty, the legislating reason cannot otherwise guard
of practical reason an end to myself, and therefore besides the formal
  For this reason, ethics may also be defined as the system of the
ends of the pure practical reason. The two parts of moral philosophy
ought, has its root in pure reason alone. Indeed, if the maxims were
reason, whereas the former is also an autocracy of it. That is, it
about by technical practical reason, it is neither armed for all
inclinations that weaken reason, which does not prove strength of
practical reason and one, therefore, which combines a concept of
reason might have would be valid only as means to other ends, and a
principles given a priori in pure practical reason.
errors; he is not merely counselled to do this by reason as
(as art), but reason, as morally practical, absolutely commands him to
(like the genius of Socrates) it preceded reason, or even could
dispense with judgement of reason; but still it is a moral perfection,
the continuance of this satisfaction. But for this very reason it is
  But just for or reason, those duties also must be reckoned as of
generally for the promotion of the ends set before us by reason.
obligation. No principle of reason prescribes how far one must go in
therefore, there is no law of reason for actions, but only for the
pure practical reason. Whatever in relation to mankind, to oneself,
and others, can be an end, that is an end for pure practical reason:
be practical reasons. Pure reason, however, cannot command any ends
practical reason (which scorns all such help), consists in this
ought to have, which, therefore, pure practical reason has in
reason in us, and at the same time also by exercise.
the mere conception of reason, that it is excited most strongly, in
by pure practical reason and its law; and it is this that we call
practical reason which, in every case of law, holds before a man his
compared it with my practical (here judicially acting) reason for
flatter ourselves that the multitude of reasons will compensate the
produce certainty, nor even probability. They should advance as reason
and consequence in a series, up to the sufficient reason, and it is
  For the same reason, no vice can be defined as an excess in the
giving reason, inasmuch as this constitutes itself a power executing
legislating reason; and although virtue may now and then be called
praeceps). And reason declares through the notion of virtue that a man
all his powers and inclinations under his rule (that of reason); and
unless reason takes the reins of government into its own hands, the
compelled by his reason to transact it as if at the command of another
or a merely ideal person which reason frames to itself. Such an
