mean the substance, i.e. the essence (for the 'why' is reducible
come to be, the last into which they are resolved (the substance
underlying substance one generate all other things by its
for out of these as immanent parts they say substance is composed
that infinity itself and unity itself were the substance of the things
of which they are predicated. This is why number was the substance
of which a given definition was predicable was the substance of the
substance and not a predicate of something else; and in saying that
the good, say that it is the cause of substance, but not that
substance either is or comes to be for the sake of this. Therefore
in not positing the substance, i.e. the essence, as the cause of
substances (for the same things which are mixed can be separated); yet
substance that then existed. I mean, e.g. that it was neither white
this sort of substance that they seek the principles and the causes.
substances, and so also in the case of all other groups there is a one
Ideas rests, there will be Forms not only of substances but also of
substances but also in the other cases, and there are sciences not
only of substance but also of other things, and a thousand other
shared in there must be Ideas of substances only. For they are not
substance; but the same terms indicate substance in this and in the
not even the substance of these, else they would have been in them),
    Again, it would seem impossible that the substance and that of
which it is the substance should exist apart; how, therefore, could
the Ideas, being the substances of things, exist apart? In the Phaedo'
or water; and if this is so, the numbers will not be substances.
    When we wish to reduce substances to their principles, we state
substance of perceptible things, we assert the existence of a second
class of substances, while our account of the way in which they are
the substances of perceptible things is empty talk; for 'sharing',
suppose that the substance which according to them underlies as matter
substance, ie. of the matter, rather than matter itself; i.e. the
all, it is only the elements of substances; therefore either to seek
this is the essence and the substance of the thing. But it is
science should survey only the first principles of substance, or
in question deals with substance, whether one science deals with all
substances, or more than one, and if more, whether all are akin, or
discussed-whether sensible substances alone should be said to exist or
or there are several classes of substances, as is supposed by those
concerned only with substances or also with the essential attributes
of substances. Further, with regard to the same and other and like and
something else but the substance of existing things, or this is not
figures and points a kind of substance or not, and if they are
substances are they separate from sensible things or present in
knowledge, the science of substance must be of the nature of Wisdom.
with substance, or a different science, and if it is not one
peculiar to the science which investigates substances, any more than
    But if the science of substance and the science which deals with
    (3) In general, do all substances fall under one science or
under more than one? If the latter, to what sort of substance is the
    (5) Further, does our investigation deal with substances alone
a substance and so are lines and planes, is it the business of the
substance also must be a demonstrative science, but it is thought that
substance? This is a very difficult question.
    (4) Further, must we say that sensible substances alone exist,
or that there are others besides these? And are substances of one kind
or are there in fact several kinds of substances, as those say who
we say the Forms are both causes and self-dependent substances has
so that both being and unity will be principles and substances; for
fortiori reasonable that the substance or essence, that which the
substance of all the individuals, e.g. of all men, be one? This is
paradoxical, for all the things whose substance is one are one. But
are the substances many and different? This also is unreasonable.-At
the substances of things, and whether each of them, without being
    (A) If we do not suppose unity and being to be substances, it
follows that none of the other universals is a substance; for these
substance, evidently number also will not exist as an entity
being must be their substance; for it is not something else that is
substance or there is a unity-itself, number cannot be a substance. We
have already said why this result follows if unity is not a substance;
and planes and points are substances of a kind, or not. If they are
not, it baffles us to say what being is and what the substances of
dispositions and ratios do not seem to indicate the substance of
substance, water and earth and fire and air, of which composite bodies
substances, and the body which is thus modified alone persists as
something real and as a substance. But, on the other hand, the body is
surely less of a substance than the surface, and the surface than
that substance and being were identical with body, and that all
the first principles. As we said, then, if these are not substance,
there is no substance and no being at all; for the accidents of
    But if this is admitted, that lines and points are substance
substance.-Further, these are all evidently divisions of body,-one
the one hand body is in the highest degree substance, and on the other
instances of substance, it baffles us to say what being is and what
the substance of things is.-For besides what has been said, the
paradoxes. For if substance, not having existed before, now exists, or
substance. And evidently the same is true of points and lines and
there will be no substance which is one in number, but only in kind,
be maintaining the Forms just because each of the Forms is a substance
individuals. If they are universal, they will not be substances; for
substance is a 'this'. And if we are to be allowed to lay it down that
said to be because they are substances, others because they are
affections of substance, others because they are a process towards
substance, or destructions or privations or qualities of substance, or
productive or generative of substance, or of things which are relative
to substance, or negations of one of these thing of substance
then, this is substance, it will be of substances that the philosopher
unity is nothing apart from being; and if, further, the substance of
substance, so that there must necessarily be among them a first
to give an account of these concepts as well as of substance (this was
forgetting that substance, of which they have no correct idea, is
and substance are composed of contraries; at least all name contraries
being, and the same science will examine not only substances but
into substance. Evidently, the inquiry into these also belongs to
primary substance. Physics also is a kind of Wisdom, but it is not the
studying the nature of all substance, to inquire also into the
    And in general those who say this do away with substance and
the substance of something. And denoting the substance of a thing
accidental; for this is the distinction between substance and
substance. And if this is so, it has been shown that contradictories
substance to which neither movement nor destruction nor generation
          'Tis one thing thinks-the substance of their limbs:
accidents of one substance, 'what is musical and Coriscus' because the
which is one substance, or because both are accidents of some
substance, the other as a state or affection of the substance.
especially those which are substances. For in general those things
those whose substance is one,-and one either in continuity or in
substances; we say the Hermes is in the stone, and the half of the
    We call 'substance' (1) the simple bodies, i.e. earth and fire and
these. All these are called substance because they are not
substance of each thing.
    It follows, then, that 'substance' has two senses, (A) ultimate
in their substance; and contraries are other than one another in
in the same substance have a difference. 'The same in species' has the
others (4) in respect of nature and substance, i.e. those which can be
'being', firstly the subject is prior, so that substance is prior;
the whole, and the matter to the concrete substance, but in complete
by their own nature some are so as substances, e.g. the line is a
and states of this kind of substance, e.g. much and little, long and
    (3) All the modifications of substances that move (e.g. heat and
things are the same whose substance is one; those are like whose
completion; for each thing is complete and every substance is
is, i.e. the final cause); (4) the substance of each thing, and the
substance of each thing, e.g. that in virtue of which a man is good is
the composite substance comes from the sensible matter, but the form
therefore, that such an induction yields no demonstration of substance
one class of being, i.e. to that sort of substance which has the
substance-as-defined for the most part only as not separable from
all. We answer that if there is no substance other than those which
if there is an immovable substance, the science of this must be
'what', which indicates the substance of the thing. For when we say of
separated from substance, but rather, if anything, it is that which
underlies them (i.e. the substance or individual), which is implied in
substance.
yet substance is first in every sense-(1) in definition, (2) in
none can exist independently, but only substance. And (1) in
the definition of its substance must be present. And (2) we think we
is, is just the question, what is substance? For it is this that
say that not only animals and plants and their parts are substances,
But whether these alone are substances, or there are also others, or
some other things, are substances, must be considered. Some think
substances, and more so than body or the solid.
sensible things, but others think there are eternal substances which
substance-the Forms and objects of mathematics-as well as a third
kind, viz. the substance of sensible bodies. And Speusippus made still
more kinds of substance, beginning with the One, and assuming
principles for each kind of substance, one for numbers, another for
in this way he multiplies the kinds of substance. And some say Forms
them-lines and planes-until we come to the substance of the material
statements are right and which are not right, and what substances
substances, and how sensible substances exist, and whether there is
a substance capable of separate existence (and if so why and how) or
no such substance, apart from sensible substances; and we must first
sketch the nature of substance.
    The word 'substance' is applied, if not in more senses, still at
the genus, are thought to be the substance of each thing, and fourthly
thing primarily is thought to be in the truest sense its substance.
    We have now outlined the nature of substance, showing that it is
view, matter becomes substance. For if this is not substance, it
depth are quantities and not substances (for a quantity is not a
substance), but the substance is rather that to which these belong
be substance. By matter I mean that which in itself is neither a
substance are predicated of substance, while substance is predicated
substance. But this is impossible; for both separability and
'thisness' are thought to belong chiefly to substance. And so form and
the compound of form and matter would be thought to be substance,
rather than matter. The substance compounded of both, i.e. of matter
into the third kind of substance; for this is the most perplexing.
    Some of the sensible substances are generally admitted to be
substances, so that we must look first among these. For it is an
we determine substance, and one of these was thought to be the
some 'this' is, since thisness belongs only to substances. Therefore
'What a thing is' in one sense means substance and the 'this', in
substance, but in a limited sense to the other categories. For even of
sense to substance, and in a secondary way to the other categories
simple sense belong to substances. Still they belong to other things
white or of a substance.
    Clearly, then, only substance is definable. For if the other
except substances, but in another sense other things will have them.
belongs to substances either alone or chiefly and primarily and in the
different. This is of some use for the inquiry concerning substance;
for each thing is thought to be not different from its substance,
and the essence is said to be the substance of each thing.
necessarily the same as its essence? E.g. if there are some substances
which have no other substances nor entities prior to them-substances
firstly, be other substances and entities and Ideas besides those
substances, if essence is substance. And if the posterior substances
it will not be substratum that is substance; for these must be
substances, but not predicable of a substratum; for if they were
be their essences from the start, since essence is substance? But
substances if anything is-all things produced either by nature or by
substance.) For even contraries have in a sense the same form; for the
substance of a privation is the opposite substance, e.g. health is the
substance of disease (for disease is the absence of health); and
of substance without matter I mean the essence.
that that which is spoken of as form or substance is not produced, but
to substances; and the Forms need not, for this reason at least, be
self-subsistent substances. In some cases indeed it is even obvious
for these are substances if anything is so); the begetter is
    Therefore, as in syllogisms, substance is the starting-point of
    But not only regarding substance does our argument prove that
substance and in that of quality and quantity and the other categories
peculiarity of substance, that there must exist beforehand in complete
reality another substance which produces it, e.g. an animal if an
inquire about the parts of which substance consists. If then matter is
matter and the form and the compound are substance even the matter
nature of parts of the formula, and of the substance according to
of animals (for this is the substance of a living being) is their
substance according to the formula, i.e. the form and the essence of a
this, the essential substance, and it is not the substance but the
essential substance, is immediately present, e.g. perhaps the heart or
individuals, but universally, are not substance but something composed
    It is clear also that the soul is the primary substance and the
    Whether there is, apart from the matter of such substances,
another kind of matter, and one should look for some substance other
determine the nature of perceptible substances as well, since in a
sense the inquiry about perceptible substances is the work of physics,
only about the matter, but also about the substance expressed in the
that in the formula of the substance the material parts will not be
present (for they are not even parts of the substance in that sense,
but of the concrete substance; but of this there is in a sense a
it with reference to its primary substance-e.g. in the case of man the
formula of the soul-, for the substance is the indwelling form, from
which and the matter the so-called concrete substance is derived; e.g.
'snub nose' and 'snubness'); but in the concrete substance, e.g. a
same; ie. in the case of primary substances, e.g. curvature and the
essence of curvature if this is primary. (By a 'primary' substance I
useful for our inquiries concerning substance. I mean this
single formula and a formula of substance, so that it must be a
formula of some one thing; for substance means a 'one' and a 'this',
this is so, clearly the last differentia will be the substance of
one differentia-the last-will be the form and the substance; but if we
'two-footed' has been said. But there is no order in the substance;
    Let us return to the subject of our inquiry, which is substance.
substance, so also is the universal. About two of these we have
substance. For firstly the substance of each thing is that which is
be the substance? Either of all or of none; but it cannot be the
substance of all. And if it is to be the substance of one, this one
will be the others also; for things whose substance is one and whose
    Further, substance means that which is not predicable of a
    But perhaps the universal, while it cannot be substance in the way
everything that is in the substance; for none the less the universal
will be the substance of something, as 'man' is the substance of the
substance of that in which it is present as something peculiar to
the substance, if it consists of parts, should not consist of
substances nor of what is a 'this', but of quality; for that which
is not substance, i.e. the quality, will then be prior to substance
substance; for then they will also be separable from it. Further,
Socrates will contain a substance present in a substance, so that this
will be the substance of two things. And in general it follows, if man
and such things are substance, that none of the elements in their
formulae is the substance of anything, nor does it exist apart from
that no universal attribute is a substance, and this is plain also
substance cannot consist of substances present in it in complete
therefore if the substance is one, it will not consist of substances
one; for he identifies substances with his indivisible magnitudes.
But our result involves a difficulty. If no substance can consist of
if no substance can be composed of substances existing in complete
reality, every substance would be incomposite, so that there would not
even be a formula of any substance. But it is thought by all and was
stated long ago that it is either only, or primarily, substance that
can defined; yet now it seems that not even substance can. There
confronts those who say the Ideas are substances capable of separate
'thises', and be capable of separate existence, and substances;
there will be practically an infinite number of things whose substance
(i) the 'animal' in each species will be the substance of the species;
the substance of another; this is impossible. The 'animal', then,
    Since substance is of two kinds, the concrete thing and the
formula (I mean that one kind of substance is the formula taken with
substances in the former sense are capable of destruction (for they
substances, because they have matter whose nature is such that they
certain substance); but also by the mention of attributes which can
    Evidently even of the things that are thought to be substances,
substance of that which is one is one, and things whose substance is
can be the substance of things, just as being an element or a
principle cannot be the substance, but we ask what, then, the
substance, since in general nothing that is common is substance; for
substance does not belong to anything but to itself and to that
which has it, of which it is the substance. Further, that which is one
giving the Forms separate existence, if they are substances; but in
what are the substances of this sort, the imperishable substances
which exist apart from the individual and sensible substances. They
kind of substance we know)--'man-himself' and 'horse-itself', adding
substances apart from those which we knew; so that now also if we do
not know what non-sensible substances there are, yet it is doubtless
term is the name of a substance, and no substance is composed of
substances.
    Let us state what, i.e. what kind of thing, substance should be
from this we shall get a clear view also of that substance which
exists apart from sensible substances. Since, then, substance is a
thing; and this is the substance of the thing. Evidently, then, in the
And similarly in all other cases. And this is the substance of each
some things are not substances, as many as are substances are formed
their substance would seem to be this kind of 'nature', which is not
We have said that the causes, principles, and elements of substances
are the object of our search. And some substances are recognized by
generally recognized are the natural substances, i.e. fire, earth,
objects of mathematics are substances. But there are arguments which
lead to the conclusion that there are other substances, the essence
thought to be substances. And since the essence is substance, and
respect to the notion of 'part', what are parts of the substance and
what are not, and whether the parts of the substance are also parts of
substance; we must inquire later into the Ideas and the objects of
mathematics; for some say these are substances as well as the sensible
substances.
substances. These are the sensible substances, and sensible substances
all have matter. The substratum is substance, and this is in one sense
existence; for of substances completely expressible in a formula
    But clearly matter also is substance; for in all the opposite
healthy and again diseased; and similarly in respect of substance
    Since the substance which exists as underlying and as matter is
remains for us to say what is the substance, in the sense of
    It is clear, then, from these facts that, since its substance is
these differentiae is substance, even when coupled with matter, yet it
is what is analogous to substance in each case; and as in substances
the third kind of substance, which is composed of matter and form (for
motion is the actuality and substance. What is a calm? Smoothness of
substance is and how it exists-one kind of it as matter, another as
whether a name means the composite substance, or the actuality or
soul'; for soul is the substance or actuality of some body. 'Animal'
into sensible substance; for the essence certainly attaches to the
nor a compound, but is the substance; but this people eliminate, and
being, and if the cause of its being is its substance, they will not
be stating the substance itself.
matter that is generated. Whether the substances of destructible
things which are not formed by nature, are substances at all; for
one might say that the nature in natural objects is the only substance
kind of substance can be defined and formulated, i.e. the composite
    It is also obvious that, if substances are in a sense numbers,
applicable, and substance is one in the sense which we have explained,
admit of the more and the less, neither does substance, in the sense
of form, but if any substance does, it is only the substance which
generation and destruction of so-called substances in what sense it is
    Regarding material substance we must not forget that even if all
    Regarding the substances that are natural and generable, if the
case of natural but eternal substances another account must be
belong to those things which exist by nature but are not substances;
their substratum is the substance. E.g what is the cause of eclipse?
being-individual substance, quality, or quantity (and so neither
other categories of being are referred-i.e. of substance. For it is in
virtue of the concept of substance that the others also are said to
the concept of substance, as we said in the first part of our work.
as substance to some sort of matter.
the ultimate subject is a substance; but when this is not so but the
material substance. And it is only right that 'thaten' should be
actually. We have said in our account of substance that everything
    Obviously, therefore, the substance or form is actuality.
things are prior in substance to perishable things, and no eternal
means 'in respect of substance'. Nothing, then, which is in the full
that kind of substance which is matter and potency, not actuality,
    If, then, there are any entities or substances such as the
non-composite substances (for it is not possible to be in error
indivisible, so that that which causes substances to be one must be
things, because we come to know the elements in the substance by
    With regard to the substance and nature of the one we must ask
substance (as both the Pythagoreans say in earlier and Plato in
    If, then, no universal can be a substance, as has been said our
discussion of substance and being, and if being itself cannot be a
substance in the sense of a one apart from the many (for it is
cannot be a substance; for being and unity are the most universal of
entities and substances separable from other things; and on the
being and substance cannot be genera.
and the one would have been something whose substance was not to be
particular things and the one is one something, and its substance is
not just to be one, the same must be true of substances also; for it
substance the one-itself is one substance. That in a sense unity means
apart from substance or quality or quantity); and that to be one is
difference in respect of their concrete substance, they are the same
    Further, does Wisdom investigate all substances or not? If not
    Further, does it deal with substances only or also with their
that of substances it is not. But if the two sciences are different,
dealing with what is primary, the science of substances claims the
looking for deals with perceptible substances or not with them, but
substances; for they are perishable.
that there is a separable substance besides the sensible substances
(i.e. the substances in this world), or that these are the real things
substance, and this is our problem, i.e. to see if there is
thing.-Further, if there is another substance apart from and
corresponding to sensible substances, which kinds of sensible
substance must be supposed to have this corresponding to them? Why
other and eternal substances equal in number to the sensible and
perishable substances would seem to fall beyond the bounds of
substance at all which can exist apart and independent. But this is
paradoxical; for such a principle and substance seems to exist and
    Further, if there is a substance or principle of such a nature
these does not indicate a 'this' or substance, how will they be
substance, all things that are are substances; for being is predicated
are substance is false. Further, how can they be right who say that
the first principle is unity and this is substance, and generate
number is substance? How are we to think of 'two', and each of the
substances, but sections and divisions-the former of surfaces, the
that there is a substance of unity and the point? Every substance
of universals and of the 'such', but substance is not a universal, but
the first principle to be substance?
of the substance or 'what'.
these, if there is a substance of this nature (I mean separable and
substances are the first of existing things, physics must be the first
of sciences; but if there is another entity and substance, separable
magnitude nor a plurality, but infinity itself is its substance and
are the same, if the infinite is substance and not predicated of a
infinite, if the infinite is substance and a principle). Therefore
    If the categories are classified as substance, quality, place,
movement in respect of substance (because there is nothing contrary to
substance), nor of relation (for it is possible that if one of two
substance or of relation or of activity and passivity, it remains that
the substance (for even the differentia is a quality), but the passive
    The subject of our inquiry is substance; for the principles and
the causes we are seeking are those of substances. For if the universe
is of the nature of a whole, substance is its first part; and if it
substance is first, and is succeeded by quality, and then by quantity.
than substance can exist apart. And the early philosophers also in
practice testify to the primacy of substance; for it was of
substance that they sought the principles and elements and causes. The
thinkers of the present day tend to rank universals as substances (for
and substances, owing to the abstract nature of their inquiry); but
the thinkers of old ranked particular things as substances, e.g.
    There are three kinds of substance-one that is sensible (of
substance are the subject of physics (for they imply movement); but
    Sensible substance is changeable. Now if change proceeds from
    Note, next, that each substance comes into being out of
rank as substances.) For things come into being either by art or by
    There are three kinds of substance-the matter, which is a 'this'
that which is in the full sense substance); the nature, which is a
again, thirdly, the particular substance which is composed of these
exist apart from the composite substance, e.g. the form of house
the principles and elements are different or the same for substances
substances. What then will this common element be? For (1) (a) there
is nothing common to and distinct from substance and the other
to the things of which it is an element. But again (b) substance is
substance. Further, (2) how can all things have the same elements? For
then, will be either a substance or a relative term; but it must be
potentially has these attributes; and substances comprise both these
producing movement or rest is a principle and a substance. Therefore
former that are substances. And therefore all things have the same
causes, because, without substances, modifications and movements do
    Further, if the causes of substances are the causes of all things,
colours and sounds, of substances and quantities, are different except
elements of substances and relations and qualities-whether they are
the causes of substances may be treated as causes of all things in
this sense, that when substances are removed all things are removed;
    Since there were three kinds of substance, two of them physical
necessary that there should be an eternal unmovable substance. For
substances are the first of existing things, and if they are all
substances, as the believers in the Forms do, unless there is to be in
enough, nor is another substance besides the Forms enough; for if it
actuality. Further, then, these substances must be without matter; for
which moves without being moved, being eternal, substance, and
opposites is in itself the object of thought; and in this, substance
is first, and in substance, that which is simple and exists
not in substance. But since there is something which moves while
    It is clear then from what has been said that there is a substance
has been shown also that this substance cannot have any magnitude, but
substance or more than one, and if the latter, how many; we must
have said nothing about the number of the substances that can even
the first and unmovable substance produces, there are other spatial
be caused by a substance both unmovable in itself and eternal. For the
substance, and the mover is eternal and prior to the moved, and that
which is prior to a substance must be a substance. Evidently, then,
there must be substances which are of the same number as the movements
That the movers are substances, then, and that one of these is first
astronomy; for this science speculates about substance which is
arithmetic and geometry, treat of no substance. That the movements are
unmovable substances and principles also may probably be taken as just
every substance which is immune from change and in virtue of itself
number of the substances. For if there are others, they will cause
substances to be gods, one must regard this as an inspired
is its substance is not the act of thinking, but a potency) it
cannot be the best substance; for it is through thinking that its
value belongs to it. Further, whether its substance is the faculty
object. In the productive sciences it is the substance or essence of
to generate one kind of substance after another and give different
principles for each, make the substance of the universe a mere
series of episodes (for one substance has no influence on another by
    WE have stated what is the substance of sensible things, dealing
in the treatise on physics with matter, and later with the substance
is or is not besides the sensible substances any which is immovable
of mathematics-i.e. numbers and lines and the like-are substances, and
again that the Ideas are substances. And (1) since some recognize
others say that the mathematical substances are the only substances,
substances of existing things or not, but only whether as objects of
when we examine whether the substances and the principles of
extending beyond these substances. Here then we shall have another
intermediate substance separate both from the Ideas and from the
intermediates,-a substance which is neither number nor points nor
generation prior, but in the order of substance posterior, as the
    Again, the solid is a sort of substance; for it already has in a
sense completeness. But how can lines be substances? Neither as a form
material substance, we should have observed things which could be
apart from the substances (e.g. a 'mobile' or a pale'), pale is
mathematics are not substances in a higher degree than bodies are, and
exists apart from the substances, and so also in the case of all other
rests, there will be Forms not only of substances but also of many
substances, but also in that of non-substances, and there are sciences
of other things than substance; and a thousand other such difficulties
of substances only. For they are not shared in incidentally, but
Forms will be substance. But the same names indicate substance in this
are not even the substance of these, else they would have been in
    Again, it would seem impossible that substance and that whose
substance it is should exist apart; how, therefore, could the Ideas,
being the substances of things, exist apart?
numbers are separable substances and first causes of things. If number
is an entity and its substance is nothing other than just number, as
substance and element of all things, and that number is formed from
separate but sensible substances are formed out of it. For they
for it is these that are substances and Ideas. Yet they will run
of the form and of the substance as expressed in the definition, the
impossible. For the universal is one as form or substance, while the
the views expressed by those who discuss only sensible substance
that there are other substances besides the sensible must be
say that the Ideas and the numbers are such substances, and that the
who described their substances as universal combined these two
characteristics in one thing, is that they did not make substances
any substances besides the sensible and transient substances, that
to these universally predicated substances, so that it followed that
do not suppose substances to be separate, and in the way in which
substance in the sense in which we understand 'substance'; but if we
conceive substances to be separable, how are we to conceive their
substances, and their elements elements of substances; then there must
    But if the principles are universal, either the substances
composed of them are also universal, or non-substance will be prior to
substance; for the universal is not a substance, but the element or
substances which have the same form there are Ideas, a single separate
be universal and not separate substances, presents indeed, of all
substance. But evidently in a sense knowledge is universal, and in a
    REGARDING this kind of substance, what we have said must be
unchangeable substances. But since there cannot be anything prior to
contrary to substance, argument confirms this. No contrary, then, is
the substance of anything. And this is reasonable; for 'the one' means
kind of entity or substance, and is posterior to quality and quantity;
else. A sign that the relative is least of all a substance and a
place locomotion, in respect of substance simple generation and
matter of each thing, and therefore of substance, must be that which
neither potentially nor actually substance. It is strange, then, or
rather impossible, to make not-substance an element in, and prior
to, substance; for all the categories are posterior to substance.
universally-that no substance is eternal unless it is actuality-and if
the elements are matter that underlies substance, no eternal substance
substance, sometimes that it is of a certain quality, sometimes that
to be supposed not to be? Is it the substances that are one, or the
and 'not being a man' means not being a certain substance, 'not
substances', is many; for the things that are generated are numbers
they would have seen the cause of the plurality in substances also;
declared what that is which is potentially a 'this' and a substance
there are many substances or many qualities-but how beings as a
whole are many; for some are substances, some modifications, some
relations. In the categories other than substance there is yet another
separable from substances, qualities and quantities are many just
substances. But in the case of 'thises', it is possible to explain how
facts about substances is rather this, how there are actually many
substances and not one.
weak. For (i) extremes are not substances, but rather all these things
that on their theory this will be a 'this' and a substance. But that
is absurd. Not but what (ii) even if they are substances, they will
all be the substances of the sensible things in this world; for it
substances some say the One itself is the good itself; but they
thought its substance lay mainly in its unity.
substances; but if the Ideas are also Ideas of substances, all animals
because they treat the numbers as the first substances, and as capable
substances. Nor does any one conceive the matter correctly if he
numbers are the causes of substances and of being-whether (1) as
